
Joraaver Chahal ID: 304200975 Arjun Lakshmipathy ID: 804158733


Our implementation consisted of first reading in the input stream set forth by
the user in the shellscript. We determined here the basic combinations of
characters that were to be classified as operators (&&, ||, <, etc.), while
everything else was treated as a word. Basic syntax errors, such as starting a
command with an operator or getting a character that was not specified as a
word, were caught in this phase.

Based on what we got from the stream, several flags were set. Some flags include
that an or command was detected, a space being detected, a word being detected,
whether the operand or operating stack was most recently added to, and several
other situations that we believed were important. These flags were used to
determine how to create and manage the generated tree.

The flags set determined how to package these various inputs as commands. If the
or flag was set, a new command was created of type OR_COMMAND, for example. More
advanced criteria were used to determine subshells and redirects, but the basic
idea nonetheless remains intact.

The interpretation of the union struct was determined based on the the
enumerated type. The default case was set to a word pointer, but was modified to
an array of character pointers in the case of an operator or a subshell node
pointer if a subshell tree was recently completed. The step, honestly, was
pretty basic.

Based on the enumerated type of the command, the command was either added to an
"operator" stack or an "operand" stack. The operator stack is pretty
self-explanatory, but the operand stack was composed both of simple commands as
well as subtrees of subcommands (a subcommand referrring to a an operator
combined with 2 operands). Every time a subcommand was created, it was
immediately pushed onto the operand stack. 

Since stacks do not exist in C, we had to create our own variations of pushing
and popping. When pushing something onto the stack, two criteria were adhered
to: an operand was pushed onto the operand stack immediately, while the operator
stack push depended on the precedence of the command type coming in. Based on
the precedence, the operator stack may have had to pop off several members and
combine said members with operands before adding the new operator to the stack.
The order of precedence was: ( > </> > | > &&/|| > ;/\n > ).

The bulk of our error handling was taken care of in the stack discipline. When
an operator of equal or lower precedence than the operator on top was about to
be added to the stack, all commands >= the precedence of the incoming command
were popped off first. For every operator popped off the stack, two operands
were popped off the operand stack and set as the left and the right child of the
operator. Naturally, if at any point an insufficient number of operands was
present, our code determined that a syntax error had been made. It was rather
nice to let the stack handle most of the error checking rather than trying to
nitpick all of the various errors ourselves. All we did was instead the design
the criteria for pushing and popping and let the rest work itself out. Our
popping function also was merely just shuffling a few pointers around. Whenever
a subcommand was created, the newly created subtree was pushed onto the operand
stack and the cycle repeated. 

When the operator stack was emptied (end of a full command), the resulting tree
in the first position of the operating stack was then added to the forest of
command trees. The root node (conveniently the last operator popped off the
operator stack in every situation) was pointed to by the master forest pointer
array, and the full series of commands is ready for interpretation. 

By the way, no real bugs exist in our code anymore. There may have been a test
case here and there that the spec did not say how to handle (might I say that
the spec was really vague and shitty), but we have covered most of what we
thought had to be covered, including this report. With that, we would like to
thank you for taking the effort to read this entire report and wish you a
wonderful rest of the day. Good day, good sir/ma'am.

....that is until you had to read the continuation of the wonderful schpeel with
the new info on part b and c. Part b was pretty straightforward - our code more
or less mirrors what the TA's instructed us to do in class. It honestly is not
very exciting. 

Part c was a royal pain in the butt. Our code operates by initially going
through the command stream using several recursive calls in order to construct a
matrix that contains all the dependencies between different simple commands in
the tree being observed. Marking a 0 for all independent relationships and a 1
for all dependent relationships, our code then parallelized all the threads that
could be run and then ran them all. When the first batch of threads finished
running, all dependencies on those threads were cleared from the table and the
next batch of threads were prepared. In addition, a completed thread was marked
with a -1 so that repeats would not occur. There is a notable difference in
performance, indicating that our all-nighter was not for naught. Not entirely
sure if we are taking care of all memory leaks, but I cant definitely count a
free for every malloc. It thus should be ok in theory.

Overall, this project was a miserable experience. I never want to do something
like this again. The difficulty was intellectually stimulating and challenging,
but the vagueness of the spec made this project a living nightmare. I hope
someone tells Paul Eggert to write better specs someday....really....they are
just awful. 
